# Topic

- Channel of communication categorized between producers and consumers.
- Producers send messages to the topic. Topics can have multiple partitions for scalability and parallel processing.
- Support retention of messages by time or size.
- Messages are targeted to specific topics, allowing parallel and distributed processing
- Divided into multiple partitions for scalability and avoid overload/duplicates.
- Two or more consumers can't read the same partition. But one consumer can read multiple partitions.

## Configurations

- `num.partitions`: The number of partitions in the topic.
- `replication.factor`: The replication factor for the topic.
- `retention.ms`: The retention time for the topic before it is deleted.
- `cleanup.policy`: The cleanup policy for the topic. Can be `delete` for delete old messages or `compact` for compact old messages.
- `min.insync.replicas`: The minimum number of replicas that must acknowledge writes to a partition before the write is considered successful.
- `segment.bytes`: The maximum size of a log segment in bytes before a new one is created.
- `retention.bytes`: The maximum size of messages in bytes before they are discarded.
- `max.message.bytes`: The maximum size of a single message in bytes.
- `message.timestamp.type`: The type of timestamp used for messages. Can be `CreateTime` or `LogAppendTime`.
- `message.timestamp.difference.ms`: The difference in milliseconds between the timestamp of the message and the current time when the message is created into the broker.

## Commands

- `kafka-topics.sh --create --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap> --replication-factor <replication_factor> --partitions <partitions_number> --topic <topic_name>`: Creates a new topic with the specified name and configuration.
- `kafka-topics.sh --list --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap>`: Lists all the topics in the cluster.
- `kafka-topics.sh --describe --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap> --topic <topic_name>`: Describes the specified topic.
- `kafka-topics.sh --delete --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap> --topic <topic_name>`: Deletes the specified topic.
- `kafka-topics.sh --alter --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap> --entity-type topic --entity-name <topic_name> --add-config <key>=<value>`: Alters the configuration of the specified topic. Ex: `--add-config retention.ms=<value_in_ms>`
- `kafka-topics.sh --alter --bootstrap-server <host_bootstrap>:<port_bootstrap> --topic <topic_name> --partition <partition_number>`: Increses or decreases the partition number of the specified topic.
