# Producer

- Send data to Kafka Cluster, sends syncronous or asyncronous messages to the topic.
- High throughput and low latency, fail tolerant, flexible configurations.
- Uses: web apps, IoT, distributed systems.
- Messages attributes: Topic, Message, Key (informs which partition to send the message to), Timestamp.

## Configurations

- `bootstrap.servers`: The bootstrap servers to connect to. Ex: `localhost:9092`
- `acks`: The number of acknowledgments (messages confirmed as received) the producer requires the leader before considering a request complete.
- `retries`: The number of times to retry sending a message in case of failure.
- `batch.size`: The maximum size of each batch of messages sent to broker in bytes.
- `linger.ms`: The time to wait before sending a full batch of messages to the broker.
- `buffer.memory`: The total memory used for buffering before sending messages to the broker.
- `key.serializer`: The serializer class for the key of the message.
- `value.serializer`: The serializer class for the value of the message.

## Commands

- `kafka-console-producer --broker-list <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name>`: Initializes the console producer and sends messages to the specified Kafka topic.
- `kafka-console-producer --broker-list <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --property parse.key=true --property key.separator=<key_separator>`: Initializes the console producer and sends messages to the specified Kafka topic with the key. Ex: `--property key.separator=:`
- `kafka-producer-perf-test.sh --producer.config <path_to_config_file> --topic <topic_name> --num-records <num_records> --record-size <record_size>`: Tests the performance of the producer by sending messages to the specified topic with the specified number of records and record size.
- `kafka-verifiable-producer.sh --broker-list <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --max-messages <max_messages>`: Initializes the verifiable console producer and sends messages to the specified Kafka topic.
- `kafka-avro-console-producer.sh --broker-list <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --property value.schema=<value_schema>`: Initializes the console producer and sends avro messages to the specified Kafka topic.
  - `Avro` is a data serialization system. It uses JSON for defining data types and protocols, and serializes data in a compact binary format.
