# Consumer

- Apps or systems that consume data from Kafka Cluster. They subscribe to topics, process and receive messages.
- Can be implemented in various languages and consume messages asynchronously or synchronously.
- Have configurations of consume behavior such as offset control, automatic commit and sizing capabilities to deal with large volumes of messages.
- Facilitates the implementation of distributed systems and real-time data processing.
- An offset only can be consumed by one consumer at a time.
- Commit: when the consumer is done processing a message, it indicates that to the Kafka Cluster. Can be auto-commit.

# Configurations

- `group.id`: The consumer group id.
- `bootstrap.servers`: The bootstrap servers to connect to. Ex: `localhost:9092`
- `auto.offset.reset`: Defines the consumer behavior when there is no initial offset or it's no longer available in Kafka. Ex: `earliest`
- `enable.auto.commit`: The consumer can commit offsets automatically. Ex: `true`
- `auto.commit.interval.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait before committing offsets. Ex: `1000`
- `max.poll.records`: The maximum number of records to fetch from Kafka per poll. Ex: `1000`
- `fetch.min.bytes`: The minimum number of bytes to fetch from Kafka before returning data. Ex: `1024`
- `fetch.max.wait.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait for data to be fetched from Kafka. Ex: `5000`
- `session.timeout.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait before timing out, the consumer is considered dead and is removed from the consumer group. Ex: `30000`
- `heartbeat.interval.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait between sending heartbeats (to check if the consumer is still alive) to the group coordinator. Ex: `5000`
- `max.partition.fetch.bytes`: The maximum number of bytes to fetch from Kafka per partition per poll. Ex: `1048576`

# Commands

- `kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name>`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic.
- `kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --from-beginning`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic, reads messages from the beginning.
- `kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --max-messages <max_messages>`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic, reads messages up to the specified number.
- `kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --property print.key=true --property key.separator=<key_separator>`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic, prints the key of each message.
- `kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --property print.timestamp=true`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic, prints the timestamp of each message created.
- `kafka-avro-console-consumer --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --topic <topic_name> --from-beginning --property schema.registry.url=<url>`: Initializes the console consumer and subscribes to the specified Kafka topic, reads avro messages from the beginning of the Kafka topic.
