# Consumer Group

- Share the processing load of data from Kafka Cluster.
- They are organized to cosume from specific topics, each message is processed by one consumer, ensuring equitable load distribution.
- Allows you to horizontally scale message processing. Ensure high availability and failure tolerance.
- Ideal to process large volumes of messages, distributing the load across multiple consumers.
- Garantee the service continuity and availability of data.

# Configurations

- `group.id`: The group id that is used to identify the consumer group.
- `bootstrap.servers`: The bootstrap servers to connect to. Ex: `localhost:9092`
- `auto.offset.reset`: Defines the consumer behavior when there is no initial offset or it's no longer available in Kafka. Ex: `earliest`
- `enable.auto.commit`: The consumer can commit offsets automatically after reading a message. Ex: `true`
- `auto.commit.interval.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait before committing offsets. Ex: `1000`
- `max.poll.records`: The maximum number of records to fetch from Kafka per poll. Ex: `1000`
- `session.timeout.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait before timing out, the consumer is considered dead and is removed from the consumer group. Ex: `30000`
- `heartbeat.interval.ms`: The time in milliseconds to wait between sending heartbeats (to check if the consumer is still alive) to the group coordinator. Ex: `5000`
- `max.partition.fetch.bytes`: The maximum number of bytes to fetch from Kafka per partition per poll. Ex: `1048576`

# Commands

- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --list`: Lists all consumer groups.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --describe --group <group_id>`: Details about a consumer group.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --describe --group <group_id> --members`: Details about a consumer group members.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --describe --group <group_id> --offsets`: Details about a consumer group offsets.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> --describe --group <group_id> --alltopics`: Details about a consumer group topics.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> reset-offsets --group <group_id> --to-earliest --execute --topic <topic_name>`: Resets the offsets to the beginning of the specified topic in a consumer group.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> reset-offsets --group <group_id> --to-latest --execute --topic <topic_name>`: Resets the offsets to the end of the specified topic in a consumer group.
- `kafka-consumer-groups.sh --bootstrap-server <list_brokers> reset-offsets --group <group_id> --shift-by <quantity> --execute --topic <topic_name>`: Deslocates the offsets forward or backward by the specified quantity of the specified topic in a consumer group.
